---
altLangPage: "https://conception.canada.ca/resumes-recherche/x.html"
date: 2022-12-21
dateModified: 2022-12-21
description: "tt"
title: "Using a wizard to help people get answers about changing entry requirements during COVID-19"
---
<p>Date: March 1, 2024</p>
<p>For Canadians and those hoping to visit or immigrate to Canada during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, travel restrictions were complex and constantly changing. Finding answers about travel was one of the top COVID-19 tasks visitors were attempting to complete online. Although lots of information was available on Canada.ca, finding the right information and synthesizing it into clear answers was difficult for individual travelers. Travel, transport, and immigration are handled by multiple departments, which complicates the task of finding all the information relevant to one’s own particular situation and travel plans.</p>
<p>We conducted usability testing with potential travelers and found that synthesizing complex travel information into an interactive wizard helped participants complete key tasks. A wizard is a way of guiding people to the answer they need through a series of interactive questions. Participants using the wizard arrived at the correct answer to questions about travel restrictions more often than participants who were constructing answers from information that is distributed across pages managed by different institutions.</p>
<p>Try out an early prototype of the wizard to see how it works.</p>
<p><a href="https://test.canada.ca/covid-19-guidance-2021/travel-2.0/wizard-7-dec2021/wizard-start.html">Find out if you can travel to Canada</a></p>
<h2>Content design in a crisis</h2>
<p>Starting in March 2020, Digital Transformation Office researchers and designers worked with the Treasury Board Secretariat, Canada Border Services Agency, Global Affairs Canada, Privy Council Office, Public Health Agency of Canada, Health Canada, and Immigration Refugees and Citizenship Canada to improve and consolidate all COVID-19 content on Canada.ca. The goal was to make answers easier to find, easier to understand, accessible, and mobile friendly.</p>
<p>By September 2020, vaccines were not yet available, and ongoing border restrictions had made the travel situation more complicated and top of mind for Canadians who needed to re-enter Canada. Call centers and Public Health Agency email inboxes were receiving a high volume of inquiries with answers that were available on various pages on Canada.ca. Initial usability testing and website feedback highlighted struggles experienced by people navigating web pages, trying to figure out which rules apply to their circumstances. Responses from the COVID-19 task success survey showed that the average reported success rate for travel-related tasks was 59.7%.</p>
<p>The studies and survey comments confirmed key challenges with the live content: participants struggled with duplicate and scattered content, long pages, and missing or misleading information. This combined evidence indicated that many people were failing to arrive at accurate answers to their questions, which could result in being turned away at the border or potentially exposing themselves and others to heightened risk of infection.</p>
<p>Our ultimate goal was to reduce errors for travelers arriving in Canada. We could do this by making it easier to get answers, thereby lessening the burden on department staff by reducing calls and emails about questions that could be otherwise answered on the website.</p>
<h2>Design solution</h2>
<p>Initial usability testing gave us some insights about what travelers struggle with when understanding travel restrictions on the current website.</p>
<p>When looking for an answer to their question during testing, participants would get overwhelmed by all the possible links that could lead them to what they were looking for. For example, from a participant’s perspective, information about quarantine requirements could be found behind the link labeled “travel advice” or it might be behind “prevention and risks.” Some pages would contain a partial answer, but still require piecing together information from multiple pages to form a complete answer.</p>
<blockquote>
  <p>"I couldn’t really find where I could find a specific section of information on the site."</p>
  <footer>Usability testing participant</footer>
</blockquote>
<p>We also observed that participants would skip past the legal content on a page even when that content was relevant to their situation. Government policies often have legal considerations attached to them, such as the consequences of not adhering to certain laws. Depending on an individual’s particular situation, missing a key piece of legal information because they are overwhelmed and confused by other legal content that doesn’t apply to them could lead to a negative outcome.</p>